{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252
{\stylesheet
{\s0 Normal;}
{\s1\snext0\outlinelevel0\fs36\b Heading 1;}
{\s2\snext0\outlinelevel1\fs32\b Heading 2;}
{\s3\snext0\outlinelevel2\fs28\b Heading 3;}
{\s4\snext0\outlinelevel3\fs24\b Heading 4;}
{\s5\snext0\outlinelevel4\fs20\b Heading 5;}
{\s6\snext0\outlinelevel5\fs16\b Heading 6;}
}
{\pard\plain\s0 Somewhere in Space\par}
{\pard\plain\s0\par}
{\pard\plain\s0 I'm awoken by the sound of my usual alarm. It's 13:30 IPT. Back home on Mars, I would usually wake up around 6:00 in the local time, so that's about, um, 21:00 IPT, I think - so it's quite jarring. I'm a slow riser, generally speaking, so this buglag is only adding to a pre-existing issue. I grab a caffeine pill from the table behind my bed to accelerate things. While this buggy is just barely fancy enough to have a stove and all, I'm not so romantic as to be brewing coffee for myself in this day and age.\par}
{\pard\plain\s0\par}
{\pard\plain\s0 Let's see, then. It's been years since I've been called for a job on the gates. To be honest with you, I'm not even sure what the problem is. Helen only told me that there were some "crossed wires" in the thirty-second partition. I had to consult my old textbook, Kurosawa's {\i Design and Architecture of Kurosawa Tunnel-Catalysts}, to remember what part of the gate the thirty-second partition was involved in. Turns out it's the part with the toll booth and all.\par}
{\pard\plain\s0\par}
{\pard\plain\s0 Originally, you know, that little shelter was supposed to house maintenance personnel and help staff. Actually, I didn't know that either until yesterday. The section in the book was titled "Partition thirtysecond // Aide Staff Boothe" (I'm not sure if that was accepted spelling at the time or what. I've heard stories that Kurosawa never let anyone edit his books or papers, so it's probably another of his weird habits). He went into quite some detail concering the various useful purposes it could serve. Not among them were enforcement of payment collection and security. He was something of an idealist.\par}
{\pard\plain\s0\par}
{\pard\plain\s0 I have to admit, we were all pretty idealistic about the gates back then. I was a child myself, so I didn't have much choice but to get swept up in the wave. My parents were die-hard expansionists, so any and all development related to space travel was treated as something to celebrate. These days, I'm not so sure we were justified in our excitement. It was inevitable, though\emdash the development and the excitement.\par}
{\pard\plain\s0\par}
{\pard\plain\s0 Whatever the case may be, the gates were built, and it seems they're here to stay. Sure, there's plenty of talk about the again-freshly rising threat of terrorism, and the {\i imminent} danger it poses to our way of life, but that's lot of fluff. They talk about disruption to the "world economy", but that phrase it outdated: these days, it spans more than a single world and is always hungry to conquer more. For that the gates are necessary.\par}
{\pard\plain\s0\par}
{\pard\plain\s0 Given their importance, the gates have surprisingly few people that work on them directly. Once I could have been counted as a core member of this group. Now I just hover about the periphery. Like I said, this is the first time in a while I've been called to a C-site, as we call them. It takes a certain level of obsession to accumulate the knowledge necessary to even dream of working on one of these, and an even higher level to go and do it. Even I had that kind of zeal back then. More than enough of it.\par}
{\pard\plain\s0\par}
{\pard\plain\s0 Breaking out of my thoughts, I force myself to sit up and rub my eyes. Swinging my legs off the bed, I move my gaze to the cabinet a few paces away. Out here, I rarely bother changing clothes, but on this occasion I feel the urge to put on something clean. I pull out a fresh shirt and pair of pants and put them on, leaving the old clothes draped on the bed, to be dealt with at a later time.\par}
{\pard\plain\s0\par}
{\pard\plain\s0 A lot of my coworkers have small rituals they perform before going out on a job, but I've never been a superstitious type. As far as I can tell, they see the gates as objects of worship. If the gates had feet, those guys would go kiss 'em before doing anything else. Hell, they even capitalize it - "the Gates". \par}
{\pard\plain\s0\par}
{\pard\plain\s0 I won't lie, there is something mythical about those big holes in space. Even these days, I think there's about four people in the world who actually understand the theory behind the tunneling itself. I mean, us workers had to go read all those classics - {\i Theoretical Underpinnings of Kurosawa Tunnels}, {\i Tunnels: With Applications}, and so on - but even the smartest guys in my class were lost by the third chapter of TUKT.\par}
{\pard\plain\s0\par}
{\pard\plain\s0 Still, it's not like aliens or angels came to Earth to gift the schematics to us. They were invented by humans and built by humans. And so they are maintained and repaired by humans. It's easy to mythologize the great figures of the past, but it's not like that kind of genius will never come again. Those people are stastical anomalies, not members of a separate species.\par}
{\pard\plain\s0\par}
{\pard\plain\s0 Which is to say, I never felt as intimidated or reverant as some of my fellow workers when it would come time to go out and work on a gate. So without further ado, I grab my gear suit and open the little portal opposite my bed, leading out to the great void.\par}
{\pard\plain\s0\par}
{\pard\plain\s0 I've read that back in the ol'en days, space used to  be the target of human hopes and dreams. I suppose it was our final frontier to conquer. At this point, though, the whole of the solar system is prosaic. I suppose when we finally break through to Alpha Centauri, it'll be as if the whole galaxy has opened up. I'm suspicious such a day will ever come, but I guess we've come this far, so it could be a losing bet to doubt.\par}
{\pard\plain\s0\par}
{\pard\plain\s0\par}
{\pard\plain\s0\par}
{\pard\plain\s0 I've found that there's few things as therapeudic as working with your hands. That's why I accepted this job; I needed something to occupy myself with. Gate work tends to take about ten times longer than you'd normally like to spend in one place (that's another reason why only fanatics tend to make it here), but to me that was just what I wanted.\par}
{\pard\plain\s0\par}
{\pard\plain\s0 Gate work tends to be a solitary endeavour. Although you'd be tempted to think two hands would make the work go by twice as fast, the mechanisms at play are so intricate that it's pretty much impossible for two people to maintain a shared understanding of what has already been done and what needs to be done, which wires have been sent where and which capacitors have been charged to what voltage. Frankly, it's incredible we manage to handle that much information going solo. Most people end up devising their own system of mnemonics and organization. Personally, I act mostly on intuition. I figure the relevant information is being held in my subconscious somewhere. It has yet to fail me, so I trust it. This kind of thing isn't unheard of either. I'm not unique or anything.\par}
{\pard\plain\s0\par}
{\pard\plain\s0\par}
{\pard\plain\s0\par}
{\pard\plain\s0\par}
}